This is a general questionnaire for video recording/streaming at events. It's
written mostly for the FOSDEM setup, but should be helpful to any event.

The main point is to collect all relevant information beforehand, so planning
can be done for venues and events that have not been seen before.

0. Preamble

FOSDEM has an interesting video setup and collected expertise on video
streaming and recording that should be helpful to more events. Based on the
experience gathered, we can help other events stream and record.

Video, regretfully, is non-trivial. It's invasive (cameras, cables, sound),
"real-time" (even a small issue makes a recording somewhat useless), and in
server terms, it's a lot more "pet" than "cattle".

So most of these questions can help everyone plan better and minimize the
problems that can occur in the middle of the event that would send people
scrambling around to fix while it's live. It's ok if some of those can't be
answered, or are irrelevant - just note that the list tries to be exhaustive
and is not tailored to a specific event.

We do have an AV manual for what the FOSDEM setup is, and that might be helpful
to provide some extra context about the questions. It's at
https://github.com/FOSDEM/video/tree/master/instructions For an example drawing
of a venue, take a look at
https://github.com/OpenFest/openfest/blob/master/2015/floorplans/parter.pdf

1. Event

Name of the event:
Location of the event (city, country, etc):
Dates of the event:
Time for deployment/setup:
Time for tear-down:
Is there time available before the event for a site visit?
Can you arrange shipping to your organization and back of some equipment, and
store it safely with you?

Preferred methods for communication:
Main contact for video and related in the organization - name, phone number,
other contact details (this would be the person called when stuff has gone
wrong and immediate reaction is needed):


Any travel details that are out of the ordinary that should be known?
Do you have someone to assist with basic information on travel/sleeping
arrangements/where to eat, etc. (as we'll be in an unknown place? :) ) :

Have you done any streaming/recording before?

If you want to stream to the outside world, do you want to build your own
streaming infrastructure, use a hyperscaler (like YouTube), or have something
else run by us?

What amount of online visitors do you expect to have?

What is the acceptable stream bandwidth for a single stream, between 1 and 5 Mbps?

Do you have people willing to learn how to do video in the future?
Do you have volunteer(s) who can help full-time with video, during setup, the
event, and tear-down?
Do you have volunteer(s) who can help part-time with video, during setup, the
event, and tear-down?

Do you have any travel/lodging budget for external video people (like us)?

2. Venue - general

Name and location of the venue:
What parts of the venue are available for the general event, and for staff?
   Is there a dedicated "staff" space, a space that can be used for NOC?
Do you have drawings/schematics of the parts of the venue that will be used
that you can share?
A drawing that also includes power outlets, network ports, and existing
video/audio equipment?
Do you have photos of the venue?
Do you have contacts with the venue's technical staff?
What language does the technical staff speak?
Is there a wireless network in the venue that's available for use?
Is there a wired network in the venue that also provides internet connectivity?
Can it be used without anything weird, like 802.1x? What are the requirements
to connect and use it?

Is the 4/5G reception good enough at the venue so that it can be used as a
last-resort streaming connectivity? Can you provide such connectivity, if
needed?

Number of rooms used for events (talks, etc):
(min) Number of rooms that MUST be streamed/recorded:
(max) Number of rooms that CAN be streamed/recorded:


4. Venue - rooms
(these are one per room)

Room ID (how do you call this room):
Size of the room by number of people:
Are there any planned layout changes to the room during the event?
Is there an existing recording/streaming setup to integrate with/work in
parallel with, and who handles it?
Is there a screen or projector in the room, and what is the interface to it
(HDMI, VGA)?
Where is the connection to the screen/projector available physically in the
room?
Is there wired network available in the room? What are the points of presence?
Is there a PA system in the room (loudspeakers) that we can connect to, and
how?
Is there a sound system in the room (microphones, mixer)? Can we use and
control that? If it exists, can you provide a list of what is there, maybe a
photo?
Are there usual cable routes, or any pre-existing cabling in the room?
What is the policy of running cables through the room?
What is the policy of taping cables to the floor or walls?
Are there fixed cameras in the room that we can use in some way?
Can the room's lights be controlled?

Features (the options are required/nice to have/no, or something more detailed):
    Do you need multiple cameras?
    Do you want to be able to play audio from the lecturer's laptop?
    Do you want to have music during the pauses between talks?
    Do you want to have a background slide on the screen in between talks?
    Do lecturers bring their own laptops, are all presentations on a single laptop, or a mix?
    Do you have events/slots where the video-responsible people have to trigger/play pre-selected video/audio clips?
    Do you need the video people to also control the lights in the room?

5. Event - available equipment

(it's pretty hard or close to impossible to bring some of the larger stuff)

Outside of what's present in the rooms, what type and amount of the following
do you have that can be used for video/streaming:

Cameras (note if they have HDMI output, and sound input on XLR connectors):
Tripods that can handle cameras:
Wireless microphones, models, frequency ranges, if known:
Laptops:
HDMI cables:
XLR cables:
Any other video equipment that you think is relevant:
Networking equipment - switches, APs, routers:
Networking equipment - cabling (a lot of the communication is over Ethernet):
